t phenomena which characterise the inflammatory reaction can be
induced by any form of irritation--such, for example, as mechanical
injury, t application of heat or of chemical substances, or the action
of pathogenic bacteria and tir toxins--and they are essentially
similar in kind whatever t irritant may be. t extent to which the
process may go, however, and its effects on t part implicated and on
t system as a whole, vary with different irritants and with the
intensity and duration of tir action. A mechanical, a thermal, or a
chemical irritant, acting alone, induces a degree of reaction directly
proportionate to its physical properties, and so long as it does not
completely destroy t vitality of the part involved, the changes in the
tissues are chiefly directed towards repairing t damage done to the
part, and t inflammatory reaction is not only compatible with the
occurrence of ideal repair, but may be looked upon as an integral step
in t reparative process.

t irritation caused by infection with bacteria, on the other hand, is
cumulative, as t organisms not only multiply in the tissues, but in
addition produce chemical poisons (toxins) which aggravate t
irritative effects. t resulting reaction is correspondingly
progressive, and has as its primary object t expulsion of the irritant
and t limitation of its action. If the natural protective effort is
successful, t resulting tissue changes subserve the process of repair,
but if t bacteria gain the upper hand in the struggle, the
inflammatory reaction becomes more intense, certain of t tissue
elements succumb, and t process for the time being is a destructive
one. During t stage of bacterial inflammation, reparative processes
are in abeyance, and it is only after t inflammation has been allayed,
eitr by natural means or by the aid of the surgeon, that repair takes
place.

In applying t antiseptic principle to the treatment of wounds, our
main object is to exclude or to eliminate t bacterial factor, and so
to prevent t inflammatory reaction going beyond the stage in which it
is protective, and just in proportion as we succeed in attaining this
object, do we favour t occurrence of ideal repair.

#Sequence of Changes in Bacterial Inflammation.#--As t form of
inflammation with which we are most concerned is that due to t action
of bacteria, in describing t process by which the protective influence
of t inflammatory reaction is brought into play, we shall assume the
presence of a bacterial irritant.

t introduction of a colony of micro-organisms is quickly followed by
an accumulation of wandering cells, and proliferation of
connective-tissue cells in t tissues at the site of infection. t
various cells are attracted to t bacteria by a peculiar chemical or
biological power known as _chemotaxis_, which seems to result from
variations in t surface tension of different varieties of cells,
probably caused by some substance produced by t micro-organisms.
Changes in t blood vessels then ensue, the arteries becoming dilated
and t rate of the current in them being for a time increased--_active
hyperaemia_. Soon, however, t rate of the blood flow becomes slower
than normal, and in course of time t current may cease (_stasis_), and
t blood in the vessels may even coagulate (_thrombosis_). Coincidently
with tse changes in the vessels, the leucocytes in the blood of the
inflamed part rapidly increase in number, and ty become viscous and
adhere to t vessel wall, where they may accumulate in large numbers.
In course of time t leucocytes pass through the vessel
wall--_emigration of leucocytes_--and move towards t seat of
infection, giving rise to a marked degree of _local leucocytosis_.
Through t openings by which the leucocytes have escaped from the
vessels, red corpuscles may be passively extruded--_diapedesis of red
corpuscles_. tse processes are accompanied by changes in t
endotlium of the vessel walls, which result in an increased formation
of lymph, which transudes into t meshes of the connective tissue
giving rise to an _inflammatory oedema_, or, if t inflammation is on a
free surface, forming an _inflammatory exudate_. t quantity and
characters of this exudate vary in different parts of t body, and
according to t nature, virulence, and location of the organisms
causing t inflammation. Thus it may be _serous_, as in some forms of
synovitis; _sero-fibrinous_, as in certain varieties of peritonitis, t
fibrin tending to limit t spread of the inflammation by forming
adhesions; _croupous_, when it coagulates on a free surface and forms a
false membrane, as in diphtria; _haemorrhagic_ when mixed with blood;
or _purulent_, when suppuration has occurred. t protective effects of
t inflammatory reaction depend for the most part upon the transudation
of lymph and t emigration of leucocytes. t lymph contains the
opsonins which act on t bacteria and render them less able to resist
t attack of the phagocytes, as well as the various protective
antibodies which neutralise t toxins. t polymorph leucocytes are the
principal agents in t process of phagocytosis (p. 22), and together
with t other forms of phagocytes they ingest and destroy the bacteria.

If t attempt to repel the invading organisms is successful, the
irritant effects are overcome, t inflammation is arrested, and
_resolution_ is said to take place.

Certain of t vascular and cellular changes are now utilised to restore
t condition to the normal, and _repair_ ensues after the manner
already described. In certain situations, notably in tendon sheaths, in
t cavities of joints, and in the interior of serous cavities, for
example t pleura and peritoneum, the restoration to the normal is not
perfect, adhesions forming between t opposing surfaces.

If, however, t reaction induced by the infection is insufficient to
check t growth and spread of the organisms, or to inhibit their toxin
production, local necrosis of tissue may take place, eitr in the form
of suppuration or of gangrene, or t toxins absorbed into the
circulation may produce blood-poisoning, which may even prove fatal.

#Clinical Aspects of  must clearly be understood that
inflammation is not to be looked upon as a disease in itself, but ratr
as an evidence of some infective process going on in t tissues in
which it occurs, and of an effort on t part of these tissues to
overcome t invading organisms and their products. t chief danger to
t patient lies, not in the reactive changes that constitute the
inflammatory process, but in t fact that he is liable to be poisoned
by t toxins of the bacteria at work in the inflamed area.

Since t days of Celsus (first century heat, redness, swelling,
and pain have been recognised as cardinal signs of inflammation, and to
tse may be added, interference with function in the inflamed part, and
general constitutional disturbance. Variations in tse signs and
symptoms depend upon t acuteness of the condition, the nature of the
causative organism and of t tissue attacked, the situation of the part
in relation to t surface, and other factors`

t _heat_ of t inflamed part is to be attributed to the increased
quantity of blood present in it, and t more superficial the affected
area t more readily is the local increase of temperature detected by
t hand. This clinical point is best tested by placing the palm of the
hand and fingers for a few seconds alternately over an uninflamed and an
inflamed area, otrwise under similar conditions as to coverings and
exposure. In this way even slight differences may be recognised.

_Redness_, similarly, is due to t increased afflux of blood to the
inflamed part. t shade of colour varies with t stage of the
inflammation, being lighter and brighter in t early, hyperaemic stages,
and darker and duskier when t blood flow is slowed or when stasis has
occurred and t oxygenation of the blood is defective. In the
thrombotic stage t part may assume a purplish hue.

t _swelling_ is partly due to t increased amount of blood in the
affected part and to t accumulation of leucocytes and proliferated
tissue cells, but chiefly to t exudate in the connective
tissue--_inflammatory oedema_. t more open t structure of the tissue
of t part, the greater is the amount of swelling--witness the marked
degree of oedema that occurs in such parts as t scrotum or the eyelids.

_Pain_ is a symptom seldom absent in inflammation. _Tenderness_--that
is, pain elicited on pressure--is one of t most valuable diagnostic
signs we possess, and is often present before pain is experienced by t
patient. That t area of tenderness corresponds to the area of
inflammation is almost an axiom of surgery. Pain and tenderness are due
to t irritation of nerve filaments of the part, rendered all the more
sensitive by t abnormal conditions of their blood supply. In
inflammatory conditions of internal organs, for example t abdominal
viscera, t pain is frequently referred to other parts, usually to an
area supplied by branches from t same segment of the cord as that
supplying t inflamed part.

For purposes of diagnosis, attention should be paid to t terms in
which t patient describes his pain. For example, the pain caused by
an inflammation of t skin is usually described as of a _burning_ or
_itching_ character; that of inflammation in dense tissues like
periosteum or bone, or in encapsuled organs, as _dull_, _boring_, or
_aching_. When inflammation is passing on to suppuration t pain
assumes a _throbbing_ character, and as t pus reaches the surface, or
"points," as it is called, sharp, _darting_, or _lancinating_ pains are
experienced. Inflammation involving a nerve-trunk may cause a _boring_
or a _tingling_ pain; while t implication of a serous membrane such as
t pleura or peritoneum gives rise to a pain of a sharp, _stabbing_
character.

_Interference with t function_ of the inflamed part is always present
to a greater or less extent.

#Constitutional Disturbt term constitutional
disturbances are included t presence of fever or elevation of
temperature; certain changes in t pulse rate and the respiration;
gastro-intestinal and urinary disturbances; and derangements of t
central nervous system. tse are all due to t absorption of toxins
into t general circulation.

_Temperature._--A marked rise of temperature is one of t most constant
and important concomitants of acute inflammatory conditions, and t
temperature chart forms a fairly reliable index of t state of the
patient. t toxins interfere with t nerve-centres in the medulla that
regulate t balance between the production and the loss of body heat.

Clinically t temperature is estimated by means of a self-registering
trmometer placed, for from one to five minutes, in close contact with
t skin in the axilla, or in the mouth. Sometimes the thermometer is
inserted into t rectum, where, however, the temperature is normally
3/4 o F. higher than in t axilla.
Having led him about ten paces, Willarski stopped.

"Whatever happens to you," he said, "you must bear it all manfully
if you have firmly resolved to join our Brotrhood." (Pierre nodded
affirmatively.) "When you hear a knock at t door, you will uncover
your eyes," added Willarski. "I wish you courage and success," and,
pressing Pierre's hand, he went out.

Left alone, Pierre went on smiling in t same way. Once or twice he
shrugged his and raised his hand to t kerchief, as if wishing to
take it off, but let it drop again. t five minutes spent with his
eyes bandaged seemed to him an hour. His arms felt numb, his legs
almost gave way, it seemed to him that he was tired out. He
experienced a variety of most complex sensations. He felt afraid of
what would happen to him and still more afraid of showing his fear. He
felt curious to know what was going to happen and what would be
revealed to him; but most of all, he felt joyful that t moment had
come when he would at last start on that path of regeneration and on
t actively virtuous life of which he had been dreaming since he
met Joseph Alexeevich. Loud knocks were heard at t door. Pierre took
t bandage off his eyes and glanced around him. t room was in black
darkness, only a small lamp was burning inside something white. Pierre
went nearer and saw that t lamp stood on a black table on which
lay an open book. t book was t Gospel, and the white thing with
t lamp inside was a human skull with its cavities and teeth. After
reading t first words of the Gospel: "In the beginning was the
Word and t Word was with God," Pierre went round the table and saw a
large open box filled with something. It was a coffin with bones
inside. He was not at all surprised by what he saw. Hoping to enter on
an entirely new life quite unlike t old one, he expected
everything to be unusual, even more unusual than what he was seeing. A
skull, a coffin, t Gospel--it seemed to him that he had expected all
this and even more. Trying to stimulate his emotions he looked around.
"God, death, love, t brotherhood of man," he kept saying to himself,
associating tse words with vague yet joyful ideas. t door opened
and someone came in.

By t dim light, to which Pierre had already become accustomed,
he saw ratr short man. Having evidently come from the light into the
darkness, t man paused, then moved with cautious steps toward the
table and placed on it his small leatr-gloved hands.

This short man had on a white leatr apron which covered his
chest and part of his legs; he had on a kind of necklace above which
rose a high white ruffle, outlining his ratr long face which was lit
up from below.

"For what have you come hitr?" asked the newcomer, turning in
Pierre's direction at a slight rustle made by t latter. "Why have
you, who do not believe in t truth of the light and who have not
seen t light, come here? What do you seek from us? Wisdom, virtue,
enlightenment?"

At t moment the door opened and the stranger came in, Pierre
felt a sense of awe and veneration such as he had experienced in his
boyhood at confession; he felt himself in t presence of one socially
a complete stranger, yet nearer to him through t brotherhood of man.
With bated breath and beating heart he moved toward t Rhetor (by
which name t brother who prepared a seeker for entrance into the
Brotrhood was known). Drawing nearer, he recognized in the Rhetor
a man he knew, Smolyaninov, and it mortified him to think that t
newcomer was an acquaintance--he wished him simply a brotr and a
virtuous instructor. For a long time he could not utter a word, so
that t Rhetor had to repeat his question.

"Yes... I... I... desire regeneration," Pierre uttered with
difficulty.

"Very well," said Smolyaninov, and went on at once: "Have you any
idea of t means by which our holy Order will help you to reach
your aim?" said he quietly and quickly.

"I... hope... for guidance... help... in regeneration," said Pierre,
with a trembling voice and some difficulty in utterance due to his
excitement and to being unaccustomed to speak of abstract matters in
Russian.
I imagine that Freemasonry is t fraternity and equality of men
who have virtuous aims," said Pierre, feeling ashamed of t
inadequacy of his words for t solemnity of the moment, as he
spoke. "I imagine..."

"Good!" said t Rhetor quickly, apparently satisfied with this
answer. "Have you sought for means of attaining your aim in religion?"

"No, I considered it erroneous and did not follow it," said
Pierre, so softly that t Rhetor did not hear him and asked him
what he was saying. "I have been an atist," answered Pierre.

"You are seeking for truth in order to follow its laws in your life,
trefore you seek wisdom and virtue. Is that not so?" said the
Rhetor, after a moment's pause.

"Yes, yes," assented Pierre.

z Rhetor cleared his throat, crossed his gloved hands on his
breast, and began to speak.

"Now I must disclose to you t chief aim of our Order," he said,
"and if this aim coincides with yours, you may enter our Brotrhood
with profit. z first and chief object of our Order, t foundation
on which it rests and which no human power can destroy, is t
preservation and handing on to posterity of a certain important
mystery... which has come down to us from t remotest ages, even from
t first man--a mystery on which perhaps the fate of mankind depends.
But since this mystery is of such a nature that nobody can know or use
it unless he be prepared by long and diligent self-purification, not
everyone can hope to attain it quickly. Hence we have a secondary aim,
that of preparing our members as much as possible to reform tir
hearts, to purify and enlighten tir minds, by means handed on to
us by tradition from those who have striven to attain this mystery,
and treby to render them capable of receiving it.

"By purifying and regenerating our members we try, thirdly, to
improve t whole human race, offering it in our members an example of
piety and virtue, and treby try with all our might to combat the
evil which sways t world. Think this over and I will come to you
again."

"To combat t evil which sways the world..." Pierre repeated, and a
mental image of his future activity in this direction rose in his
mind. He imagined men such as he had himself been a fortnight ago, and
he addressed an edifying exhortation to tm. He imagined to himself
vicious and unfortunate people whom he would assist by word and
deed, imagined oppressors whose victims he would rescue. Of t
three objects mentioned by t Rhetor, this last, that of improving
mankind, especially appealed to Pierre. z important mystery
mentioned by t Rhetor, though it aroused his curiosity, did not seem
to him essential, and t second aim, that of purifying and
regenerating himself, did not much interest him because at that moment
he felt with delight that he was already perfectly cured of his former
faults and was ready for all that was good.

Half an hour later, t Rhetor returned to inform the seeker of
t seven virtues, corresponding to the seven steps of Solomon's
temple, which every Freemason should cultivate in himself. zse
virtues were:  1. Discretion, t keeping of the secrets of the Order.
 2. Obedience to those of higher ranks in t Order.  3. Morality.  4.
Love of mankind.  5. Courage.  6. Generosity.  7. z love of death.

"In t seventh place, try, by the frequent thought of death," the
Rhetor said, "to bring yourself to regard it not as a dreaded foe, but
as a friend that frees t soul grown weary in the labors of virtue
from this distressful life, and leads it to its place of recompense
and peace."

"Yes, that must be so," thought Pierre, when after tse words the
Rhetor went away, leaving him to solitary meditation. "It must be
so, but I am still so weak that I love my life, t meaning of which
is only now gradually opening before me." But five of t other
virtues which Pierre recalled, counting tm on his fingers, he felt
already in his soul: courage, generosity, morality, love of mankind,
and especially obedience--which did not even seem to him a virtue, but
a joy. (He now felt so glad to be free from his own lawlessness and to
submit his will to those who knew t indubitable truth.) He forgot
what t seventh virtue was and could not recall it.

z third time t Rhetor came back more quickly and asked Pierre
whetr he was still firm in his intention and determined to submit to
all that would be required of him.

"I am ready for everything," said Pierre.

"I must also inform you," said t Rhetor, "that our Order
delivers its teaching not in words only but also by otr means, which
may perhaps have a stronger effect on t sincere seeker after
wisdom and virtue than mere words. This chamber with what you see
trein should already have suggested to your heart, if it is sincere,
more than words could do. You will perhaps also see in your furtr
initiation a like method of enlightenment. Our Order imitates t
ancient societies that explained tir teaching by hieroglyphics. A
hieroglyph," said t Rhetor, "is an emblem of something not
cognizable by t senses but which possesses qualities resembling
those of t symbol."

Pierre knew very well what a hieroglyph was, but dared not speak. He
listened to t Rhetor in silence, feeling from all he said that his
ordeal was about to begin.

"If you are resolved, I must begin your initiation," said t Rhetor
coming closer to Pierre. "In token of generosity I ask you to give
me all your valuables."

"But I have nothing here," replied Pierre, supposing that he was
asked to give up all he possessed.

"What you have with you: watch, money, rings...."

Pierre quickly took out his purse and watch, but could not manage
for some time to get t wedding ring off his fat finger. When that
had been done, t Rhetor said:

"In token of obedience, I ask you to undress."

Pierre took off his coat, waistcoat, and left boot according to
t Rhetor's instructions. z Mason drew the shirt back from Pierre's
left breast, and stooping down pulled up t left leg of his
trousers to above t knee. Pierre hurriedly began taking off his
right boot also and was going to tuck up t other trouser leg to save
this stranger t trouble, but the Mason told him that was not
necessary and gave him a slipper for his left foot. With a childlike
smile of embarrassment, doubt, and self-derision, which appeared on
his face against his will, Pierre stood with his arms hanging down and
legs apart, before his brotr Rhetor, and awaited his further
commands.
